College of Charleston
EMBA Marketing Services
HIGHER EDUCATION MARKETING AND ENROLLMENT STRATEGY
Digital Marketing Proposal
June 2024

Experience with Business Program and EMBA Marketing. Carnegie has served as the digital marketing partner for institutions nationwide including both centralized and decentralized graduate program models, central marketing offices, as well as individual program focuses. With extensive work experience with graduate  programs, we have the unique ability to design data-driven strategies that increase engagement, develop affinity, and drive conversions. Master's programs require an understanding of motivations, behaviors, and demographics for these audiences, and an experienced partner to navigate the marketing strategy and channels to be successful. Carnegie brings that expertise to the table.

As you review our proposal, please contact me if you have any questions or would like additional information. Hopefully, this proposal will serve as a springboard for additional conversation and collaboration — we’d love to tailor our approach to your needs. 

Mark Cunningham 
EVP, Graduate & Online Solutions 
Carnegie
Conner Berger and Erika LeGendre
College of Charleston
School of Business

Dear Conner and Erika:

Thank you for the opportunity to submit a proposal to submit your digital marketing efforts.

Our proposal outlines a comprehensive strategy designed to leverage the power of our research and digital marketing channels to increase visibility, engage your target audience, drive inquiries, and ultimately assist meet the enrollment goals for your inaugural EMBA program. We believe that we’re uniquely positioned to partner with you. Working with us, you’ll:

Have a partner that knows Higher Education. Since 1985, we’ve been at the forefront of higher education marketing. Our team has been in your seat, many of us holding leadership positions in the space, so we understand the nuances of the industry including terminology, recruitment cycles, generational and demographic nuances, and more. We will bring that expertise to every conversation to advise on the best path forward. 
Unlock the Power of Data. Digital marketing for higher education requires constant innovation. With new technologies and updating algorithms, the landscape is always changing. But no one understands the higher education landscape and the future of digital marketing as well as Carnegie. We bring advanced strategies to showcase your brand to the world. Above all, we tailor the plans for you: your audience, your institution, your goals.
2

About Carnegie
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

Custom, Programmatic & Audience Research that Isn’t Boilerplate
We conduct national research dedicated to the grad market; benchmark thousands of campaigns and best practices; and offer custom research dedicated to your specific market, program, and audience needs.

Outcomes that Beat Industry Benchmarks
Carnegie campaigns consistently beat industry benchmarks on vital metrics, including cost-per-conversion, cost-per-lead, and cost-per-acquisition. We are laser focused on results from lead generation and application volume to overall enrollment growth and conversion rate optimization across all channels including your website.

Advanced Analytics and Technology
Our analytics technologies inform go-to-market strategy, deliver real-time and machine-learning driven campaign performance, and provide precise and transparent data access that optimizes every tactic, strategy, and result.

Premier Partnerships that Offer Direct Impact
As Premier Partners of Google, Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, and LinkedIn, we hold the highest excellence standards, giving you a direct line to new trends, insights, and exclusive beta features.

Experts that Serve as an Extension of Your Team 
We have teams of experts with grad backgrounds who have worked for and with hundreds of grad and online partners across thousands of strategies and campaigns. 




GoogleGoogle Premier Partner for 9 straight years and counting (awarded to just 3% of their agency partners)
100%All execution is done in house by over 100 digital strategists, resulting in the flexibility to pivot and scale all year

101 CertsOur Digital Marketing team has completed over 100 certifications in digital advertising
250M Access to over 250 million households and 750 million variables, offering unmatched audience intelligence

LinkedInDesignated a “Best-In-Class” agency LinkedIn,  and partner with them on grad and online research, strategy, and campaigns
UPCEAA Gold-level partner with UPCEA, the Online and Professional Education Association

NAGAPProud NAGAP partner for over 6 years, and 1 of 2 founding partners of their Strategic Partnership Council (SPC)
28 AwardsOur Creative work has received 28 awards in the last year alone
1,000+Marketed, provided LeadGen, and drove apps and enrollments for over 1,000 graduate program campaigns over the past year
4
Carnegie at a Glance
For more than 35 years, Carnegie has been a leader and innovator in higher education marketing and enrollment strategy, offering groundbreaking services in the areas of Research, Strategy, Digital Marketing, Lead Generation, Slate Optimization, Proposal, Financial Aid Optimization, Website Development, and Creative that generate authentic connections.

We can meet you wherever you are in your journey. Consider our team an extension of your own — focused on your needs, dedicated to your success. 
BRAND STRATEGY
Carnegie’s original psychometric model and brand reputation strategy allow us to do more than just create a brand for your organization.

DIGITAL MARKETING
We bring advanced strategies to showcase your brand to the world. Above all, we tailor the plans for you: your audience, your institution, your goals.

ENROLLMENT STRATEGY
Our approach to enrollment marketing success is to uncover and interpret intelligent, market-driven, student-centric data and then leverage its findings to execute customized strategies for your institution.

FINANCIAL AID OPTIMIZATION
We deliver individualized financial aid strategy—not only customized for your institution, but customized for each student.


INTEGRATED RESEARCH
Our cutting-edge, proven methodologies give you the game-changing insights needed to transform your enrollment, marketing and branding, and communications outcomes. 

LEAD GENERATION
CollegeXpress is the go-to resource for college and scholarship searches for millions of students, parents, and counselors, which is why it’s a trusted tool for hundreds of institutions.

MARKETING STRATEGY
Colleges and universities must place more attention on reputation management and marketing strategy as evolving, competitive dynamics further impact higher education.

PERSONALITY ASSESSMENTS
CarnegieChem, our carefully designed suite of personality assessments and tools, reveals human personality and performance factors in an entirely new way.


SIGNATURE CREATIVE
By defining what sets you apart and by learning what will speak to  your audiences, we create impactful messaging that builds reputation and forges powerful connections.

SLATE OPTIMIZATION
Our Slate Optimization team saw the industry need and met it. We’re transforming the higher education landscape by leveraging the power of Slate—one project at a time.

STUDENT SEARCH
Your Student Search will be built on the student’s terms: when they are ready, where they want to connect, and with messaging that speaks directly to who they are as individuals.

WEBSITE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT
We design websites for colleges and universities that are alive and persuasive—congruent with campus voices and integrated within your marketing ecosystem.


Comprehensive Services
5

As the premier provider of digital marketing within higher education, and as a full-service digital partner, Carnegie is equipped with dedicated and specialized teams to leverage cross-channel strategies and tactics to meet your goals as well as introduce new innovations and channels into the overall mix. Our full-service capabilities mean we can seamlessly guide you from research and strategy to creative development to execution and analysis.

SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION
Content Optimization
Technical Site Audit
Technical Consulting
Metadata Optimization
Google My Business
Website Redesign Consulting
ADA Compliance Consulting
Program Name Analysis


DISPLAY
Display Outreach
Retargeting
IP Targeting
Mobile Location Targeting
Mobile Footprints
Audience Select
Geofencing
Look-Alike Display 

SOCIAL MEDIA
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
Snapchat
TikTok
Reddit
Twitter
Quora
Outbrain
Pandora
Spotify
YouTube
Hulu
OTT + Connected TV
Podcasts

STREAMING

MEASUREMENT
Carnegie ClarityTM
Live Dashboard Reporting
Advanced Analytics
PAID SEARCH
Pay Per Click (PPC)
Remarketing Lists for Search Ads (RLSA)
YouTube
Higher Ed Digital Marketing Expertise


With us as a Digital Innovator, you’re a Digital Innovator: Carnegie is constantly innovating across the digital marketing landscape, and doing so in a smart and strategic way (versus chasing the shiny new toy). Whether it be Google’s new AI Powered Performance Max campaign and how it can best be applied to digital marketing for enrollment, or the development of our proprietary Mobile Footprints capability to target individuals by location and then carry that through to IP Targeting at their homes, we will always offer and explore the most innovative digital solutions that are centered around appropriateness, effectiveness, and performance for higher ed.

6

Google Premier Partner and “Best-In-Class” LinkedIn Partner
Carnegie is also proud to be strategic and premier partners with several other leading digital and social platforms, offering similar direct value-add to our client partners for the work we do for them:
Each year, Google recognizes the achievements of top-performing digital marketing partners across the globe by awarding Premier Partner status. Only 3% of Google Partners achieve this honor. 
WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU
Dedicated Google account and technical support
Early access to exciting beta products
Competitive spending analysis reports
Quarterly education trends reports
And more!

7
“Best In Class” Designation
WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU
Dedicated LinkedIn account and technical support
Collaborative research and thought leadership in the graduate, online, and adult education areas
First-mover access to alphas and betas
Consultation on organic strategy, corporate partnerships, academic reputation, talent acquisition, thought leadership and any marketing objectives 
Custom Insights support

Carnegie has been designated “Best In Class” by LinkedIn - a recognition of our outstanding work on behalf of our client partners, and the results, outcomes, and efficiencies we accomplish for them each year.

Your Stated Goal: Yield a class of 25 students for your EMBA program
This is where we begin. With an understanding of your ultimate end goal, we build our strategy across the entire funnel to maximize our opportunities to reach and exceed the goals you’ve described.
Milestone Markers
From clicks and conversions, to website engagement and behavior, to inquiries and applications, to ROI and ROAS - we’ll determine together the milestones markers that will equate to success, and we’ll construct and optimize our campaigns and strategies around those.
Performance Over Channel
As a full-service agency with expertise across all platforms, we prioritize performance over channel. If Facebook is delivering high-volume but low-quality leads (as an example), and a pivot to more LinkedIn will drive stronger results, we’re able to adapt and optimize in any direction.
Prioritization from Collaboration 
Not all programs are equal when it comes to market opportunity and marketing cost possibilities. We bring market insights, historical campaign benchmarks, and real-time data to work with you to prioritize focus, spend, and performance in the ways you need, and that will be the most successful.
Scalable and Program/Campaign Specific Conversion Optimization 
A Call-To-Action or conversion expectation needs to be different when someone is Retargeted off your program page versus when they search for your program on Google for the first time. From program specific landing page development and lead gen forms to ad messaging specific to stage of the funnel, we apply best practices and expertise to develop scalable conversion-centric models to both optimize the user experience and accomplish the milestone markers you need.
Performance and Outcomes as our Benchmark

Campaign and strategic success should not be defined by number of purchased names or high-volume clicks and conversions alone. Best practices need to be applied that consider things like market interest, decision-making timelines for grad students, costs per keyword, program-specific conversion strategies, website engagement and re-engagement, and ultimately, how a full-funnel marketing approach will result in actual enrolled students. 

At Carnegie, we start with your end goal, and have the expertise to carry that through to a performance and outcome focused approach at every step of the journey.
Your Goals are Our Goals
8



Relevant Experience
9
Carnegie has served as the digital marketing and lead generation partner for institutions nationwide including complex and decentralized graduate program models, centralized marketing and admissions offices, as well as individual programs being offered at institutions. With experience serving hundreds of institutions across thousands of campaigns, we have the unique ability to strategize and implement media across channels with an understanding of the nuances of reaching prospective students to drive enrollment for all types of program needs. We design data-driven strategies that increase engagement, develop affinity, and drive conversions.
Carnegie is proud to partner with over 100 institutions specifically in the areas of digital marketing and lead generation for graduate enrollment.
We have extensive experience working with business schools and supporting MBA and Executive MBA programs to help drive enrollment. Some of the institutions we partner with for Executive MBA digital marketing and lead generation include:

Brandeis University
Chapman University
Columbia University
Sam Houston State University
The University of Georgia
University of Rochester
Vanderbilt University
Xavier University


Our Proposed Approach
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

DISCOVER
In discovery, we’ll review project goals, timelines, and dive into your brand voice, data set-up, and more. 
STRATEGIZE
We’ll derive insight from the Discovery process and create a custom, tailored set of strategies for you. 
ACTIVATE
We’ll produce creative assets and then deploy them throughout your enrollment ecosystem. 


MEASURE
After deployment we’ll provide you with regular reports and recommendations for campaigns in flight. 


OPTIMIZE
Iterative improvement is essential to maximizing your efforts over time. We will provide ongoing consultation. 


CONTRACT SIGNED
CAMPAIGN LAUNCH
6-8 Weeks
11
Our Approach
Jaime


PSYCHOGRAPHIC SEGMENTATION—DELIVER THE PERSONALIZED EXPERIENCE STUDENTS ARE ASKING FOR AND STAND APART FROM YOUR COMPETITION.

In our psychographic segmentation we leverage rich data like motivations, interests and beliefs of students to better understand them as individuals. We use that enhanced understanding to better segment and communicate which dives higher conversions.With a Carnegie Proposal you can choose from National student profiles or Custom, institutional profiles. 


Discovery, Goal Setting, and Planning
12
Our team will set up an initial kickoff meeting to talk through key information including enrollment goals, key deadlines, target audiences, priority months, etc. to ensure we're aligned with what success looks like prior to launch. A plan will be shared showing projected budget allocation for each audience and the media placement recommendations to drive the outcomes you’re looking for. 
Our team utilizes tools to look at projected campaign performance across different ad platforms to help determine the best tactics and budget to ensure we meet your goals. Being a higher ed focused agency, we have a database filled with past performance data to be able to better understand trends and benchmarks within different types of institutions, segments, audiences, and markets, allowing us to put forward an initial strategic plan. Any prior marketing results from your history that can be shared with our team will be reviewed and incorporated into our initial plan to make sure we’re working off prior findings.
At Carnegie, we lean on the best and most comprehensive sources available to construct the most efficient and impactful campaign strategy across all channels and to effectively deliver Return on Ad Spend (ROAS). This includes the ability to identify the most niche audience data to construct the most relevant campaigns possible. 
Resources include:
DV360 signals/audience building
Google Keyword Planner
LinkedIn and Meta's audience builders
Your Google Analytics and/or Google Search Console accounts
Pandora and Hulu audience data
SEMRush, Screaming Frog, Answer the Public
AudienceDesigner by Semcasting (ADS)
Carnegie Clarity audience development

The combination of these resources and access enable us to take a comprehensive look at audiences, channels, and performance to apply precise media and budget allocation for each of your campaigns.


Digital Strategy Overview
13
GOAL: Yield a class of 25 students for your EMBA program in January of 2025
AUDIENCES: Working professionals with a minimum of 5 years in the workforce who have a drive to enhance their career path. Average age for the program to be between 30 and 40, and preferably be focused from the Lowcountry region and several outside markets, including Charlotte, Washington D.C., New York City and Chicago. 
STRATEGY: With this strategy, we kept costs aligned with your current marketing plan of $10,000 per month ($40,000 total). Our recommended mix includes both awareness driving tactics and lead generation to reach prospects at each stage of their journey with the appropriate messaging and CTA. With this budget, we are recommending we start with a few DMAs and we can expand from there. We will work with you to help identify those DMAs based on strategic expansion goals, and data from your Google Analytics. Our initial recommendation includes:
Leveraging LinkedIn Sponsored Content and/or LinkedIn Conversation Ads to reach prospects for your EMBA program. The goal of these tactics is awareness and lead generation. 
Leveraging nationwide targeting for Display Retargeting with an ‘Apply’ CTA to stay in front of those that have visited your website regardless of where they are in the country. 
Including Google PPC to stay in front of active searchers based on a comprehensive keyword strategy including program, geography, and brand related keywords. 
40%
10%
Social Media StrategyLinkedIn Sponsored Content
LinkedIn Conversation Ads
Lookalike Audiences and Retargeting
Display StrategyDisplay Retargeting 
PPC Strategy
Brand, Program, and Geography related keywords

50%

Note on cost proposal + invoicing: For digital marketing, we charge campaign setups (which includes set up across all digital platforms including keyword research, creation of target audiences, development of all copy and ad text, including testing variations, bidding strategies, etc.)  and a monthly fee as a percentage of media spend that covers strategic management, ongoing optimization, bidding, content and creative changes, and calls needed to ensure the success of your campaign. It also covers all ongoing recommendations for strategy adjustments and platform updates as well as providing you access to a live reporting dashboard. Fees are included in the cost estimates above.
Recommended Investment - Media
Service
Scope of Work Summary
Cost
LinkedIn Sponsored Content and Conversation Ad Campaigns
Sponsored Content utilizing lead generation for prospective EMBA students in select DMAs and Retargeting nationwide off of key EMBA pages on the website
Conversation ad utilizing lead generation for prospective EMBA students in select DMAs

July - October
$16,000
Pay-Per-Click (PPC)
Brand and EMBA keywords to select DMAs on the Google search engine

July - October
$20,000
Display Retargeting
Retargeting nationwide off of key EMBA pages on the website
July - October
$4,000
Total:
$40,000
Timing
14

15
Landing pages
Driving traffic from your ads to campaign-specific landing pages maximizes both your digital ad spend and your ability to convert and generate leads. From strategy and design to hosting and A/B testing, our in-house Creative team will leverage industry best practices and work with your institution to produce landing pages that serve all your campaign needs and generate inquiries. We can also integrate with your CRM for the ultimate efficiency in real-time lead delivery.
Animated Ad productionUtilizing animation in your digital campaigns is a great way to quickly grab the attention of your target audience and convey your brand message in a way that’s both effective and visually appealing. Our Design team can produce highly engaging HTML5 Display banner ads or short form animated ads for platforms such as Snapchat, allowing you to deliver more information to your prospective student or parent audience in a dynamic, compelling way.
Display and Social Ad production
The very first touch point of any digital campaign is the ad a prospective student or parent sees. Our Design team can produce compelling ads to ensure your message is delivered clearly and resonates with your audience. Leveraging your branding guidelines and industry best practices for optimal results, we can quickly and cost-effectively develop the creative you need to improve the engagement of your Display ads or social media campaigns.

Optional Creative Development Support
General ad development included in campaign setups detailed in media strategy on previous page. Further options detailed below (custom pricing can be provided as needed)



Account and Campaign Management

Carnegie will assemble an account and campaign management team to ensure optimal performance and that we’re achieving the results you need. From making sure each campaign is pacing and performing on track to making sure all campaigns and channels are working together to meet the overall goals, our team takes a very hands-on approach in reviewing performance and making optimizations to ensure best results.


ACCOUNT MANAGER
DIGITAL STRATEGIST
CLIENT SUCCESS LEADER
The intentional concierge to your Carnegie experience will be with you every step of the way working to ensure that our ongoing efforts align with your top priorities and enrollment goals. 
Your experienced, strategic partner in shaping your digital strategy, analyzing performance and optimizing your digital marketing efforts year-after-year. 
Comprehensive partnerships require meticulous attention to detail. Your Account Management Lead will ensure regular calls and communication and adherence to established timelines.  
Our digital marketing division is composed of 100+ digital leaders, strategists, specialists, analysts, and subject matter experts. You will be assigned dedicated team members across each specialization, including a digital strategist who will provide strategic oversight and harmonize our teams to ensure  a holistic approach to your campaigns that are measurable and aligned with your key goals and objectives. 
16

* Additionally, Carnegie offers personalized platform-specific data from our partners (ie. Google, Linkedin, etc.) and degree level benchmarking updated in real time.
We leverage, and you will have full access to, a Google LookerStudio dashboard which provides KPIs (impressions, clicks, conversions, etc.) from channels in your strategy mix and displays return on investment (ROI). This means we can holistically look at the overall performance of your strategy in real time but also look at data granularly to identify top-performing campaigns, keywords, creative, etc. These dashboards are available 24/7 and updated daily, making campaign results and ROI fully accessible at any time. In addition to the live dashboards, our strategists will provide analysis, insights, and next steps based on campaign performance. 
We will also leverage data available in your Google Analytics to gather performance insights to inform optimizations of your strategy, at no additional cost to you.
Campaign Tracking and Optimization 

LinkedIn Talent Pool Report
Proprietary Benchmark Dashboard
17

Success Stories
Find out how we help colleges and universities connect with the right students, at the right time, with messaging that speaks directly to who they are as individuals with more case studies on our website.
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

Wake Forest University
School of Business
When Wake Forest University needed strategic direction and management of digital marketing for its graduate business programs, the University selected Carnegie through a competitive bid process. With limited in-house marketing capabilities, the University needed a partner with a higher education focus as well as systems and processes in place to efficiently and effectively strategize and buy advertising on a national scale. There was also an expressed need to better understand and track prospective students throughout the enrollment journey and minimize “ghost” applicants.
“We are fully convinced that Carnegie’s digital strategies helped us meet or exceed our enrollment goals this year. We consistently find anywhere from a third to half of our enrolled students actively engaged with our digital campaigns during their search.”
Michael Lamphier
Executive Director, Marketing and Communication
Wake Forest University School of Business
19

The Strategy
To achieve Wake Forest’s primary goals of solidifying brand awareness and building the school’s profile, Carnegie delivered a layered digital strategy incorporating PPC, Display Outreach and Retargeting, and LinkedIn. Through Carnegie ClarityTM, Wake Forest was able to build an understanding of engagement (number of visits, engagement during site visits, etc.) among prospective students. Campaigns took an always-on approach with an emphasis in September and January in order to reach prospective students set to complete their undergraduate degrees. The initial media strategy was outlined based on Wake Forest’s goal to drive a balance of inquiries and applications. After a few months of optimizing campaign performance to those strategies driving inquiries most affordably (mostly Lead Generation campaigns on Facebook and Instagram), we gained more robust data from Carnegie ClarityTM that indicated while PPC had a higher cost per lead due to higher competition, PPC was actually most effective at driving application submissions. Our team then made a recommendation to shift more budget to PPC, where there was an opportunity to increase traffic and overall applications.
The ResultsAfter implementing a robust digital strategy inclusive of paid media, SEO, attribution through Carnegie ClarityTM and Google Analytics consulting, we effectively optimized campaign performance to outperform Carnegie benchmarks in nearly every category, including cost per acquisition (CPA). During the 2019–2020 fiscal year, Carnegie campaigns drove over 1,700 total conversions, with nearly 450 of those conversion actions being application submissions. The School of Business met or exceeded all enrollment goals for fall 2020, citing digital marketing as a significant factor in its success.
+
+
20

LargePrivate University

The Challenge
A large SEC school was struggling with differentiating its graduate school programs in a tight competitive environment. It asked Carnegie to create an ad campaign concept that would help them stand out with the specific goal of generating leads and applications, ultimately to increase enrollment in their business programs. After creating a robust campaign, Carnegie employed program-specific strategies and personalized website experiences using its proprietary website attribution tool, ClarityTM.


+
21

The ResultsCarnegie employed a program-specific strategy so that each of the graduate programs had their own specific target audience and messaging which led to significant year-over-year (YoY) increases. Clarity, Carnegie’s website personalization tool, served individualized content to website visitors, which vastly increased conversion rates. As an example, with the EMBA program, visitors were 34% more likely to engage and convert when Carnegie’s proprietary website tool, Clarity was used. Deploying a program-specific strategy with personalized messaging also generated 117% YoY increase in inquiries and 218% YoY increase in applications for a total of 1,847 inquiries and 1,079 application submissions in a two year period.
218%increase in applications YoY
34%increase in conversions using Carnegie ClarityTM
+
22

23
The University of Idaho

“Partnering with Carnegie has been the best way to maximize our internal resources and equip us for growth. I attribute much of our success to Carnegie’s model—we have real time feedback, direct access to the team’s expertise, spot-on recommendations, and ongoing adjustments. The team is always one step ahead of us, which is crucial in a marketing environment that demands agility and flexibility.”
John BarnhartChief Marketing Officer

24
The Situation
The University of Idaho needed an integrated digital marketing partner to achieve its enrollment growth goals. To support and enhance in-house capabilities, the University invested in additional marketing resources and chose Carnegie through a competitive RFP process. Having partnered previously with a local marketing agency, the University turned to Carnegie with a need for strategic higher education expertise. A state-funded institution, the University needed to maximize its resources and generate a proven ROI.
The Strategy
We strategized and implemented a full-funnel digital campaign that included Display Outreach and Retargeting, paid search, behavioral and list targeting, and social and streaming media to reach and engage prospective students at each phase of the enrollment journey. Campaigns targeted a variety of audiences, including prospective undergraduate, graduate, and transfer students as well as alumni. We also optimized landing pages and enhanced analytics to maximize advertising spend as well as the University’s ability to generate leads and track user traffic and behavior. We regularly met with University marketing leadership to review results and adjust tactics, messaging, and campaign strategy to drive the results the University needed.
The ResultsIn the first two years of our partnership, the University of Idaho enrolled two of its largest freshman classes in five years—an increase of 36% from fall 2020 to fall 2022. The University also saw an increase in graduate and overall enrollment. University marketing leadership recognized the power of Carnegie’s partnership in driving this enrollment growth and continues to work closely with us as a trusted marketing partner.

+
+
36%first-year enrollment increase during the first two years of our partnership


+

25
References
Michael Lamphier
Executive Director, Marketing + Communication


Wake Forest University
1834 Wake Forest Rd
Winston-Salem, NC 27109

336-408-3978
lamphimd@wfu.edu

Scope of Work:
Annual digital advertising; web personalization and advanced attribution








John Barnhart
Senior Director of Marketing & Creative Services


University of Idaho
875 Perimeter Drive
Moscow, ID 83844

208-885-7009
jbarnhart@uidaho.edu

Scope of Work:
Annual digital advertising; psychographic segmentation and creative; web personalization and advanced attribution








Kate Silva
Digital Communications Manager


Vanderbilt University
Owen Graduate School of Management
401 21st Avenue South
Nashville, TN 37203

615-322-2534
kate.silva@vanderbilt.edu

Scope of Work:
Annual digital advertising; lead generation; web personalization and advanced attribution








Edit as needed for proposal with references from the master doc

In Conclusion…
Ben

Ben
Proposal dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Proposal was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

Deep Understanding of Higher Education and the Graduate Space: We have a comprehensive understanding of the higher education landscape, including market trends, regulatory challenges, and the competitive environment. We stay updated on industry developments and leverage our knowledge to develop effective marketing strategies for your needs.
Tailored Services: We provide a range of services specifically designed to meet the graduate specific needs for business programs. This includes branding and identity development, website optimization, content marketing, digital advertising, search engine optimization (SEO), social media management, lead generation, enrollment marketing, and more.
Expertise in Audience Segmentation: We have an understanding of the diverse audience segments within the universe of prospective graduate students and the ability to craft campaign strategy to resonate with different demographics and psychographics involved.
Strategic Partnerships: We bring a true partnership approach to provide ongoing support, strategy, and performance for our marketing efforts. These partnerships involve collaborating with in-house marketing teams and other stakeholders to align marketing strategies with institutional goals and objectives.
Focus on ROI: Results-driven focus on delivering measurable outcomes for our partners. We utilize data analytics tools to track the performance of marketing campaigns, assess return on investment (ROI), and make data-driven adjustments to optimize outcomes and maximize enrollment.
Industry Best Practices: A constant focus on innovation and staying abreast of industry best practices and emerging trends in higher education marketing. We conduct research, focus on continuous improvement and development, share thought leadership, earn certifications, offer workshops and events, and lean into industry partnerships to ensure that our strategies are innovative and effective.
Reputation and Track Record: A proven track record of success working with colleges and universities in the graduate space. We’re proud of our client testimonials, examples of work and success, and industry awards that showcase our credibility and expertise.

We look forward to the possibility of supporting you and helping to achieve the enrollment goals you’ve shared for your inaugural EMBA program!



Why Carnegie?
27

210 Littleton Road, Suite 100 Westford, MA 01886
info@carnegiehighered.com
carnegiehighered.com
978.692.5092
