    June 25,  2024
RFP
Graduate Enrollment Review and Analysis
University of Puget Sound

In this proposal, you’ll find our recommended path forward for your Graduate Enrollment Review and Analysis project. You are already ahead of the curve in identifying the need for top-of-the-line research and a thorough understanding of the competitive landscape to help you craft data-driven decisions.
The proposal that follows lays out our proposed process, budget, and timeline. We hope that we can use this as a springboard for further discussion — we wantto ensure that we tailor the final scope of work to your exact needs. 
With gratitude and anticipation, 
Nicole Vilegi-SandageDirector of Client Success | West Regionnvilegi-sandage@carnegiehighered.com303-903-6294
Mark Cunningham EVP, Graduate & Online Solutionsmcunningham@carnegiehighered.com617-413-9035

MATTHEW BOYCEVice President for Enrollment
University of Puget Sound
mpboyce@pugetsound.edu

The landscape of higher education marketing is shifting like never before.

More competition. Fewer students. More demands. Fewer resources. More channels. More data. More analytics. You’ve heard the trends,  best practices, mantras, and key takeaways. But you also live in the real world—a world in which your team has all the energy, optimism, and ideals but not enough hours in the day. How do you cut through the clutter, the busywork, and make real gains that will move the needle?
We realize how significant this project is for you and that you expect to be wowed. That you want a partner who is going to push you to be your best. And, at the end of the day, you want a partner who will help you achieve your graduate enrollment goals to compete not just regionally, but nationally. 
We are uniquely qualified to help you reach your strategic, institutional goals. We know for certain that there has never been a more important time to deliver highly personalized and emotive communications to your market. You have to boldly tell your story in a way that resonates with your multiple audiences and moves them to action. That is where our work together begins.  
Dear Matthew and members of the review committee:


Your Goals and Opportunities
Our Recommended Approach
Project Management and Timeline
Proposed Budget
References and Relevant Experience
Meet Your Leadership Team
About Carnegie
4
6
11
14
16
19
21
Proposal Contents
Our mission is to help our clients understand who they are, who their audiences are, and how to forge powerful and enduring relationships. We offer a comprehensive and integrated portfolio of services that generate results for whatever challenges you may face. We invented our proprietary methods and tools because nothing like them existed in the marketplace to provide solutions.
Our talented force of strategic thinkers are passionate about your triumphs. We stack your deck by employing industry leaders and insiders who not only love to succeed but also love to help you change the game. This is how we earn your trust as an invaluable strategic partner. 


3

Your Goals & Opportunities
The landscape of graduate enrollment is ever shifting, and we are here to help chart a path forward to meet your goals.
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

Your Goals and Opportunities





From your RFP, we understand that this project entails:
Analyzing prioritized graduate programs to provide an objective benchmarking tool to underscore data-driven decision making.
Benchmarking programs against competitors to identify gaps and opportunities in the market and position marketing accordingly.
Reviewing admissions and marketing operations and communications strategy to ensure alignment with best practices.
Providing short and long term recommendations to prioritize early wins and maximize efficiency and efficacy of resources over time.



You’ve got big aspirations for this project, and we want to collaborate in strategic ways to help you achieve them.




Our Recommended Approach
Our proposed solution is custom and flexible to maximize your resources and get you to the goal line as soon as possible.
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

Our Approach
Everything we build for our clients is custom, so we are proposing a stackable, flexible approach that can accommodate your needs within your chosen timeline. Due to the research-driven nature of your project, many of these steps can overlap or be done simultaneously to expedite the desired findings and subsequent recommendations.
The following slides provide an overview of the steps Carnegie would take to reach your goals:

Execute Program Marketing Research for the six programs identified in the RFP to understand market demand, challenges to enrollment, and important factors of choice affecting your enrollment goals.
Complete a competitive scan to understand gaps and opportunities in the market for current programs.
Conduct a thorough operations and communications analysis of marketing and admissions functions, identifying strengths and prioritizing areas of opportunity.
Provide detailed analysis and recommendations as well as a high level executive summary to present to leadership.

Program Marketing Research
Which of your graduate programs have the most opportunity for growth? Where should marketing dollars be focused for the highest ROI? Program and degree offerings are consistently listed in the top three reasons why students pick an institution, which means the answers to these questions can make a significant difference in prospects' likelihood to attend. 
Our mixed-methods program assessment combines data on degree supply and demand, digital trends, and direct insights from students. Whether you’re considering expanding an existing program or venturing into new programs, the information from this in-depth research leads to logical go-to-market planning and personality-driven communication and enrollment strategies.
You will gain insight on:
Digital keyword and media use data by program
Pros and cons of program interest for each degree option
Information-seeking habits and the most important factors of choice

Our Approach (continued)

Competitive Scan
As competition for high-quality students continues to rise, understanding how your institution's program offerings compare to key competitors is critical. Carnegie uses several secondary data sources to gather information relevant to programming for specific CIP codes and builds profiles of top competitors to allow for quick review and strategic positioning. This document includes degree conferral information, employment data, digital trends and search data, as well as program profiles for each competitor so that the institution can make strategic decisions about its graduate programs.
You will gain insight on:
How your program costs compare to competitors
Admissions requirements that may be causing roadblocks
Gaps and opportunities in what competitors are offering to inform messaging

Our Approach (continued)

Admissions + Marketing Operations + Comms Analysis

Our Approach  (continued)
Are your marketing and enrollment operations and communications efforts working together as seamlessly as possible? Are systems optimally designed to reach your prospective students and drive them to action? Carnegie experts will analyze your admissions operations, systems, resources, and communications flow, including frequency, timing, channel strategy, and segmentation. The final report will detail insights and recommendations for each area analyzed and provide you with relevant best practices to achieve the enrollment outcomes you covet.
You will gain: 
Insight into the strengths and weaknesses of your unique enrollment ecosystem
Best practices to increase efficacy and efficiency of enrollment efforts
A third-party report to help address delicate internal challenges objectively


Project Management & Timeline
With a dedicated account manager, a team of subject matter experts, and technology to keep us all on task, our processes maximize collaboration while streamlining efficiencies for staff.
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

Project Management
Each account is assigned a dedicated account team—your primary contact will be an account manager; all day-to-day communications funnel through this contact to provide you with a clear and consistent communication channel to your Carnegie team. Additionally, a senior strategist, account coordinator, and research analyst will all be dedicated to your project. Additional subject matter experts are assigned to specific projects so you’ll always receive support from the industry's best minds. Each strategist and specialist on the account team are held accountable by our entire leadership team. 
We utilize a project management software called Asana that was selected specifically for its ability to facilitate multi-phase projects, both the high-level phased planning and the minute management of tasks and subtasks. Your account manager captains the creation and management of all timelines, and each member of your account team is assigned to specific tasks and subtasks. Progress of both tasks and phases are reported weekly and monitored by company leadership. At every step of the way, your account manager will supply you with specific next steps so you’re well aware of what needs to happen to keep the projects moving smoothly. Due to the depth and breadth of Carnegie's portfolio of services, we've invested the time needed to develop efficient processes, process documentation, and project communication best practices so that each of our clients benefit from partnering with a single-source provider as well as an agile, potent team.

Carnegie Enrollment Review Timeline
July
August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
Program Marketing Research
Competitive Scan
Enrollment & Marketing Analysis
Leadership Presentation
Contract Signed
*Please note that the extensive research requested typically takes three to four months to complete and have analysis ready to present to leadership with recommendations. Expediency in signing the contract and responsiveness in planning initial discovery meetings will be critical to achieve the desired timeline.

Proposed Budget
We have an integrated set of solutions for you that will specifically address each of your outlined goals and objectives. 
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

Investment Summary
Research & Strategy
Scope of Work Summary
Cost
Program Marketing Research
A multi-method approach to understanding the potential of either new or existing academic or degree programs in a given region. Data is collected from a templated quantitative survey of prospective students, digital trends information from the vast Carnegie digital reporting system, and employment and degree conferral statistics from secondary government sources. Strategic considerations to select programs for launch and promote a new program launch will be developed to guide the institution through the steps of bringing a new program to market. Full deliverable includes survey results, program-by-program opportunity profiles, and key strategic insights. Includes 6 programs of the same academic level (graduate or undergraduate) tested; regional survey responses: 500 completes (applicable research sample cost of $3,000 included in total pricing)
$24,800
Competitive Scan Research
Desk research of competitor programs via website content and requests for information, as well as existing NCES degree conferrals data. Each competitor profile will contain information about program pricing, entry requirements, course and credit requirements, marketing focus, and other publicly available information that speaks to the program's key value propositions and strengths. Client will provide Carnegie with competitor requests for each program of interest. Report to include profiles, a data spreadsheet of additional information such as course listings where available, and strategic insights for positioning based on competitor data.
3 competitor profiles per program; 6 programs for comparison; 18 total profiles (additional single competitor profiles for a single program can be added at a cost of $500 each).
$12,500
Admissions and Enrollment Operations & Communications Analysis
Analysis of your graduate admissions operations, systems, resources, and communications flow, including frequency, timing, channel strategy, and segmentation. The analysis will cover all relevant subject areas within enrollment operations and communications. A detailed report inclusive of summary insights and recommendations as well as specific insights and recommendations for each subject area will be provided.
4-7 hours of analysis meetings conducted on-site or virtually. Documents for analysis collected prior to analysis meetings.One-hour virtual presentation of the resultant deliverableReport provided in PDF, to include executive summary, trends, and insights/recommendations for all subject areas analyzed
$31,700
Total Recommended Investment:
$69,000

References + 
Relevant Experience
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

In varying capacities, Carnegie has assisted dozens of schools over the past year to understand perceptions, strengths, and weaknesses of graduate programs. Armed with rich research, we were then able to devise marketing and enrollment strategies to prioritize and grow those programs effectively.

Relevant Experience
74% year-over-year increase in applications, and an 87% increase in accepted applications

294% year-over-year increase in inquiries and a 55% decrease in cost-per-lead (CPL)

Partnered on a comprehensive graduate research plan, including perception studies and analyzing individual programs

Support roughly 100 programs across grad, undergrad, and online

Serve as AOR for WSUGlobal supporting all online programs
Partnered on competitive analysis, external perception study, and individual graduate program research

References
Libby Kacich
Assistant Dean for Marketing & Communications

The Grainger College of Engineering  at the University of Illinois
306 Engineering Hall MC 266
1308 West Green Street
Urbana, IL 61801

217-244-4255
lkacich@illinois.edu 

Scope of Work:
Our work with Grainger began with research, analyzing their marketing operations and uncovering their brand personality. This work provided the solid foundation needed for creative campaign development, collateral, web content development, photography, and videography.  




Kelly Pokrywka
AVP, Enrollment Management & Student Success

Xavier University
3800 Victory Pkwy.Cincinnati, OH 45207

513-745-3608
pokrywkak@xavier.edu

Scope of Work:
Xavier engaged Carnegie for a series of research projects to grow undergraduate and graduate enrollment. Custom focus groups and an online external perception study were conducted to identify sentiment on new enrollment strategies they were testing and key enrollment challenges as identified by Xavier.




Greg Zaiser
Vice President for Enrollment

Elon University
100 Campus Drive Elon, NC 27244

336-278-7648
zaiser@elon.edu 

Scope of Work:
Elon partnered with Carnegie on a comprehensive graduate research plan that included understanding current institutional perceptions held by industry players and prospects. Carnegie also explored geographic market opportunities and analyzed individual graduate programs to identify gaps and opportunities. 









Your Leadership Team
We’ve assembled a team from multiple disciplines to work with you to ensure a seamless experience throughout each phase of work. From the Client Success Director providing strategic direction to the Account Manager keeping day-to-day tasks on track, and all the subject matter experts in between – one team, your team.
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

Melissa Vangsness
SVP, Strategy
With over a decade in the industry, Melissa Vangsness has an exceptional passion for elevating brands and has gained recognition for her ability to move organizations forward. Known for her relentless work ethic, she is a fearless champion of everything she does. After relinquishing her post as Director of Communications and Marketing at the University of Minnesota, Morris, Melissa is now using her expertise at Carnegie to guide clients through research, strategy, creative, and strategic marketing. She holds a bachelor’s degree from North Dakota State University and a master’s in Strategic Communication from Concordia University, St. Paul.
Persona
The Independent and Resilient Contender
Jared Brickman
SVP of Research
Jared Brickman considers himself a true data nerd. With a decade of research experience in communication technologies and campaign studies, Jared is practical, focused, and driven by the compelling stories found underneath the numbers. He has won local, national, and international awards for his overall research on mobile health, viral web content, and online social support. He is also an active member of the research review community and is an upcoming member of the editorial board for the peer-reviewed journal New Media and Society.
Persona
The Imaginative and Analytical Theorist
Meet Your Leadership Team
Nicole Vilegi-Sandage
Director, Client Success
As a Director of Client Success for Carnegie's Sales division, Nicole Vilegi-Sandage brings creative problem-solving, curiosity, empathy, and enthusiasm to ensure strong partnerships and client success and satisfaction. Nicole advocates for clients, wearing their jersey on and off the field. Before joining Carnegie, she spent over 14 years in enrollment management, leading communications/ marketing and Slate implementation and coordinating international and domestic recruitment for undergraduate and graduate admissions.
Persona
The Enthusiastic and Caring Shepherd
Mark Cunningham
EVP, Graduate + Online Solutions
Mark Cunningham is a leading expert in recruitment services and marketing, empowering clients to communicate their brand and personality to create unmatched engagement with their audiences. With more than 20 years of experience, he is a regular presenter and speaker at industry conferences, and he manages many of Carnegie’s partnerships with various associations and organizations in the higher education space.
Persona
The Adventurous and Caring Patron
Selma Gomez
AVP, Account Management
Selma’s client dedication can only be topped by her love of color-coded files and sticky notes. As project manager, she eases client concerns and keeps objectives on track with unmatched organizational skills. She joins the Carnegie team as part of the company’s merger with Underscore, a dedicated Slate development and optimization company.
Persona
The Adventurous and Sophisticated Aficionado

About Carnegie 
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

We can meet you wherever you are in your journey. Consider our team an extension of your own — focused on your needs, dedicated to your success. 
BRAND STRATEGY
Carnegie’s original psychometric model and brand reputation strategy allow us to do more than just create a brand for your organization.

DIGITAL MARKETING
We bring advanced strategies to showcase your brand to the world. Above all, we tailor the plans for you: your audience, your institution, your goals.

ENROLLMENT STRATEGY
Our approach to enrollment marketing success is to uncover and interpret intelligent, market-driven, student-centric data and then leverage its findings to execute customized strategies for your institution.

FINANCIAL AID OPTIMIZATION
We deliver individualized financial aid strategy—not only customized for your institution, but customized for each student.


INTEGRATED RESEARCH
Our cutting-edge, proven methodologies give you the game-changing insights needed to transform your enrollment, marketing and branding, and communications outcomes. 

LEAD GENERATION
CollegeXpress is the go-to resource for college and scholarship searches for millions of students, parents, and counselors, which is why it’s a trusted tool for hundreds of institutions.

MARKETING STRATEGY
Colleges and universities must place more attention on reputation management and marketing strategy as evolving, competitive dynamics further impact higher education.

PERSONALITY ASSESSMENTS
CarnegieChem, our carefully designed suite of personality assessments and tools, reveals human personality and performance factors in an entirely new way.


SIGNATURE CREATIVE
By defining what sets you apart and by learning what will speak to  your audiences, we create impactful messaging that builds reputation and forges powerful connections.

SLATE OPTIMIZATION
Our Slate Optimization team saw the industry need and met it. We’re transforming the higher education landscape by leveraging the power of Slate—one project at a time.

STUDENT SEARCH
Your Student Search will be built on the student’s terms: when they are ready, where they want to connect, and with messaging that speaks directly to who they are as individuals.

WEBSITE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT
We design websites for colleges and universities that are alive and persuasive—congruent with campus voices and integrated within your marketing ecosystem.


Comprehensive Services

210 Littleton Road, Suite 100 Westford, MA 01886
info@carnegiehighered.com
carnegiehighered.com
978.692.5092
