University of Miami
Online Masters Public Health

HIGHER EDUCATION MARKETING AND ENROLLMENT STRATEGY
Digital Marketing Proposal
May 2024

Dr. Elahe Nezami
University of Miami


Dear Dr. Elahe Nezami and team:

Thank you for the opportunity to submit a proposal for digital marketing and lead generation! 
You have described the need for a best-in-class digital marketing partner to support your Online M.P.H. goal to  enroll 30 students for the spring of 2025. We are confident Carnegie is the partner you need, and we’re excited to present this proposal. Working with us, you’ll:

Have a partner that knows Higher Education. Since 1985, we’ve been at the forefront of higher education marketing. Our team has been in your seat, many of us holding leadership positions in the space, so we understand the nuances of the industry including terminology, recruitment cycles, Gen Z and Gen Alpha expectations, and more. We will bring that expertise to every conversation to advise on the best path forward. 

Tap into an unmatched depth and breadth in end-to-end capabilities. Our team is made up of experts in the areas of web, digital, CRM integration, design, and research. We will custom build a team based on your needs and will bring a thoughtful perspective to each project that is steeped in integration and collaboration across all of these areas. Our deep bench of talent also allows us to be nimble as new challenges arise. 
2
Experience a philosophy and approach committed to results and transparency. Carnegie has built our capabilities and strategies to be able to be measured and optimized constantly. Through our transparent performance dashboards and our proprietary attribution modeling technology, we will always be ahead of any opportunity for increasing performance and impact across our digital media strategies.

Hopefully, this proposal will serve as a springboard for additional conversation and collaboration — we’d love to tailor our approach to your needs. 

Nichole EisenzopfAVP, Client Successneisenzopf@carnegiehighered.com

Mark Cunningham
EVP of Graduate and Online Solutionsmcunningham@carnegiehighered.com 

About Carnegie
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

1985The year our company was founded
41The number of states that we call home
3The number of major conferences that we host every year
12 The number of higher ed industry organizations we call partners

11
The number of custom research white papers released over the last year
700The number of institutions we’ve partnered with over the last year

3Top archetypes represented in our team: Provider, Explorer, Competitor
25The number of major conferences we present at annually
341The number of Carnegie team members across the country
Higher Education Marketing and Enrollment StrategyCarnegie is the future of higher education marketing and enrollment strategy, and has been since 1985.


Integrated Services for Marketing and EnrollmentWe deliver what others simply cannot because we have what others do not: original intellectual property, powerful data, precision tools, and decades of market leadership experience.


Custom SolutionsCarnegie builds custom solutions with best-in-every-class services in Research, Strategy, Digital Marketing, Lead Generation, Slate Optimization, Student Search, Financial Aid Optimization, Web Development and Creative that generate student connection. Our approach is data driven, personified, targeted, and customized to solve our clients’ unique enrollment needs and challenges. 
For more than 35 years, Carnegie has been a leader and innovator in higher education marketing and enrollment strategy, offering groundbreaking services in the areas of Research, Strategy, Digital Marketing, Lead Generation, Slate Optimization, Student Search, Financial Aid Optimization, Website Development, and Creative that generate authentic connections.
The Power of Human ConnectionWe connect colleges with students through the power of human connection. We believe that genuine connection is the key to capturing attention and building affinity. We measure and then market to a student’s unique behaviors and motivators to create deep connections and real conversations
4
Carnegie at a Glance
4

Comprehensive Services
We can meet you wherever you are in your journey. Consider our team an extension of your own — focused on your needs, dedicated to your success. 
BRAND STRATEGY
Carnegie’s original psychometric model and brand reputation strategy allow us to do more than just create a brand for your organization.

DIGITAL MARKETING
We bring advanced strategies to showcase your brand to the world. Above all, we tailor the plans for you: your audience, your institution, your goals.

ENROLLMENT STRATEGY
Our approach to enrollment marketing success is to uncover and interpret intelligent, market-driven, student-centric data and then leverage its findings to execute customized strategies for your institution.

FINANCIAL AID OPTIMIZATION
We deliver individualized financial aid strategy—not only customized for your institution, but customized for each student.


INTEGRATED RESEARCH
Our cutting-edge, proven methodologies give you the game-changing insights needed to transform your enrollment, marketing and branding, and communications outcomes.

LEAD GENERATION
CollegeXpress is the go-to resource for college and scholarship searches for millions of students, parents, and counselors, which is why it’s a trusted tool for hundreds of institutions.

MARKETING STRATEGY
Colleges and universities must place more attention on reputation management and marketing strategy as evolving, competitive dynamics further impact higher education.

PERSONALITY ASSESSMENTS
CarnegieChem, our carefully designed suite of personality assessments and tools, reveals human personality and performance factors in an entirely new way.


SIGNATURE CREATIVE
By defining what sets you apart and by learning what will speak to  your audiences, we create impactful messaging that builds reputation and forges powerful connections.

SLATE OPTIMIZATION
Our Slate Optimization team saw the industry need and met it. We’re transforming the higher education landscape by leveraging the power of Slate—one project at a time.

STUDENT SEARCH
Your Student Search will be built on the student’s terms: when they are ready, where they want to connect, and with messaging that speaks directly to who they are as individuals.

WEBSITE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT
We design websites for colleges and universities that are alive and persuasive—congruent with campus voices and integrated within your marketing ecosystem.


5
5

As an industry-leading partner of NAGAP and UPCEA, Carnegie knows the unique challenges that come with building graduate and online enrollment. We offer tailored solutions across a comprehensive suite of services to meet you where you are. Together, we’ll build a modern, performance-based enrollment solution for all your audience-specific  needs.
Outcome-focused Approach to
Grad & Online
6
6
Custom, Programmatic & Audience Research We conduct national research dedicated to the grad and online markets; benchmark thousands of campaigns and best practices; and offer custom research dedicated to your specific market, program, and audience needs.

Outcomes that Beat Industry BenchmarksCarnegie campaigns consistently beat industry benchmarks on cost-per-conversion and cost-per-lead. We are laser focused on results from lead generation and application volume to overall enrollment growth and conversion rate optimization across all channels including your website.

Advanced Analytics and TechnologyOur analytics technologies inform go-to-market strategy, deliver real-time and machine-learning driven campaign performance, and provide precise and transparent data access that optimizes every tactic, strategy, and result.

Premier Partnerships that Offer Direct ImpactAs Premier Partners of Google, Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, and LinkedIn, we hold the highest excellence standards, giving you a direct line to new trends, insights, and beta features.

Experts that Serve as an Extension of Your Team We have teams of experts with grad and online backgrounds who have worked for and with hundreds of grad and online partners across thousands of strategies and campaigns. 


GoogleGoogle Premier Partner for 5 straight years and counting (awarded to just 3% of their agency partners)
SlateThe 1st organization to be named a Slate preferred partner
101 CertsOur Digital Marketing team has completed over 100 certifications in digital advertising
250M Access to over 250 million households and 750 million variables, offering unmatched audience intelligence

LinkedInDesignated a “Best-In-Class” agency LinkedIn,  and partner with them on grad and online research, strategy, and campaigns
UPCEAA Gold-level partner with UPCEA, the Online and Professional Education Association

NAGAPProud NAGAP partner for over 6 years, and 1 of 2 founding partners of their Strategic Partnership Council (SPC)
28 AwardsOur Creative work has received 28 awards in the last year alone
1,000+Marketed, provided LeadGen, and drove apps and enrollments for over 1,000 grad and online programs over the past year
7
Delivering Like No One Else Can
7
Carnegie has served as the digital marketing AOR for institutions nationwide including online/distance education clients, complex and decentralized graduate program models, centralized marketing offices, as well as for online programs being offered at traditional institutions. With experience serving hundreds of institutions across thousands of campaigns, we have the unique ability to strategize and implement media across channels with an understanding of the nuances of reaching prospective students to drive enrollment for all types of program needs. We design data-driven strategies that increase engagement, develop affinity, and drive conversions.

As the premier provider of digital marketing within higher education, and as a full-service digital partner, Carnegie is equipped with dedicated and specialized teams to leverage cross-channel strategies and tactics to meet your goals as well as introduce new innovations and channels into the overall mix. Our full-service capabilities mean we can seamlessly guide you from research and strategy to creative development to execution and analysis.

SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION
Content Optimization
Technical Site Audit
Technical Consulting
Metadata Optimization
Google My Business
Website Redesign Consulting
ADA Compliance Consulting
Program Name Analysis


DISPLAY
Display Outreach
Retargeting
IP Targeting
Mobile Location Targeting
Mobile Footprints
Audience Select
Geofencing
Look-Alike Display 

SOCIAL MEDIA
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
Snapchat
TikTok
Reddit
Twitter
Quora
Outbrain
Pandora
Spotify
YouTube
Hulu
OTT + Connected TV
Podcasts

STREAMING

MEASUREMENT
Carnegie ClarityTM
Live Dashboard Reporting
Advanced Analytics
PAID SEARCH
Pay Per Click (PPC)
Remarketing Lists for Search Ads (RLSA)
YouTube
8
Higher Ed Digital Marketing Expertise


With us as a Digital Innovator, you’re a Digital Innovator: Carnegie is constantly innovating across the digital marketing landscape, and doing so in a smart and strategic way (versus chasing the shiny new toy). Whether it be Google’s new AI Powered Performance Max campaign and how it can best be applied to digital marketing for enrollment, or the development of our proprietary Mobile Footprints capability to target individuals by location and then carry that through to IP Targeting at their homes, we will always offer and explore the most innovative digital solutions that are centered around appropriateness, effectiveness, and performance for higher ed.

8

Google Premier Partner and “Best-In-Class” LinkedIn Partner
Carnegie is also proud to be strategic and premier partners with several other leading digital and social platforms, offering similar direct value-add to our client partners for the work we do for them:
Each year, Google recognizes the achievements of top-performing digital marketing partners across the globe by awarding Premier Partner status. Only 3% of Google Partners achieve this honor. 
WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU
Dedicated Google account and technical support
Early access to exciting beta products
Competitive spending analysis reports
Quarterly education trends reports
And more!

9
9
“Best In Class” Designation
WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU
Dedicated LinkedIn account and technical support
Collaborative research and thought leadership in the graduate, online, and adult education areas
First-mover access to alphas and betas
Consultation on organic strategy, corporate partnerships, academic reputation, talent acquisition, thought leadership and any marketing objectives 
Custom Insights support

Carnegie has been designated “Best In Class” by LinkedIn - a recognition of our outstanding work on behalf of our client partners, and the results, outcomes, and efficiencies we accomplish for them each year.

Your Stated Goal: ~30 Enrolled Students for Spring ’25
This is where we begin. With an understanding of your ultimate end goal, we build our strategy across the entire funnel to maximize our opportunities to reach and exceed the goals you’ve described.
Milestone Markers
From clicks and conversions, to website engagement and behavior, to inquiries and applications, to ROI and ROAS - we’ll determine together the milestones markers that will equate to success, and we’ll construct and optimize our campaigns and strategies around those.
Performance Over Channel
As a full-service agency with expertise across all platforms, we prioritize performance over channel. If Facebook is delivering high-volume but low-quality leads (as an example), and a pivot to more Paid Search will drive stronger results, we’re able to adapt and optimize in any direction.
Prioritization from Collaboration 
Not all programs are equal when it comes to market opportunity and marketing cost possibilities. We bring market insights, historical campaign benchmarks, and real-time data to work with you to prioritize focus, spend, and performance in the ways you need, and that will be the most successful.
Scalable and Program/Campaign Specific Conversion Optimization 
A Call-To-Action or conversion expectation needs to be different when someone is Retargeted off your program page versus when they search for your program on Google for the first time. From program specific landing page development and lead gen forms to ad messaging specific to stage of the funnel, we apply best practices and expertise to develop scalable conversion-centric models to both optimize the user experience and accomplish the milestone markers you need.
Performance and Outcomes as our Benchmark

Campaign and strategic success should not be defined by number of purchased names or high-volume clicks and conversions alone. Best practices need to be applied that consider things like market interest, decision-making timelines for grad/online students, costs per keyword, program-specific conversion strategies, website engagement and re-engagement, and ultimately, how a full-funnel marketing approach will result in actual enrolled students. 

At Carnegie, we start with your end goal, and have the expertise to carry that through to a performance and outcome focused approach at every step of the journey.
Your Goals are Our Goals
10
10

Our Proposed Approach
Ben

Ben
Student Search dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Student Search was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

DISCOVER
In discovery, we’ll review project goals, timelines, and dive into your brand voice, data set-up, and more. 
STRATEGIZE
We’ll derive insight from the Discovery process and create a custom, tailored set of strategies for you. 
ACTIVATE
We’ll produce creative assets and then deploy them throughout your enrollment ecosystem. 


MEASURE
After deployment we’ll provide you with regular reports and recommendations for campaigns in flight. 


OPTIMIZE
Iterative improvement is essential to maximizing your efforts over time. We will provide ongoing consultation. 


CONTRACT SIGNED
CAMPAIGN LAUNCH
6-8 Weeks
12
12
Our Approach
Jaime


PSYCHOGRAPHIC SEGMENTATION—DELIVER THE PERSONALIZED EXPERIENCE STUDENTS ARE ASKING FOR AND STAND APART FROM YOUR COMPETITION.

In our psychographic segmentation we leverage rich data like motivations, interests and beliefs of students to better understand them as individuals. We use that enhanced understanding to better segment and communicate which dives higher conversions.With a Carnegie Proposal you can choose from National student profiles or Custom, institutional profiles. 


Discovery, Goal Setting, and Planning
13
13
Our team will set up an initial kickoff meeting to talk through key information including enrollment goals, key deadlines, target audiences, priority months, etc. to ensure we're aligned with what success looks like prior to launch. A plan will be shared showing projected budget allocation for each audience and the media placement recommendations to drive the outcomes you’re looking for. 

Our team utilizes tools to look at projected campaign performance across different ad platforms to help determine the best tactics and budget to ensure we meet your goals. Being a higher ed focused agency, we have a database filled with past performance data to be able to better understand trends and benchmarks within different types of institutions, segments, audiences, and markets, allowing us to put forward an initial strategic plan. Any prior marketing results from your history that can be shared with our team will be reviewed and incorporated into our initial plan to make sure we’re working off prior findings.

At Carnegie, we lean on the best and most comprehensive sources available to construct the most efficient and impactful campaign strategy across all channels and to effectively deliver Return on Ad Spend (ROAS). This includes the ability to identify the most niche audience data to construct the most relevant campaigns possible. 

Resources include:
DV360 signals/audience building
Google Keyword Planner
LinkedIn and Meta's audience builders
Your Google Analytics and/or Google Search Console accounts
Pandora and Hulu audience data
SEMRush, Screaming Frog, Answer the Public
AudienceDesigner by Semcasting (ADS)
Carnegie Clarity audience development

The combination of these resources and access enable us to take a comprehensive look at audiences, channels, and performance to apply precise media and budget allocation for each of your campaigns.


Strategy Overview
14
14
GOAL: Build awareness, generate inquiries, and ultimately drive enrollment for a new Online M.P.H. program - looking towards Spring of 2025.

AUDIENCES: Prospective online students in research-informed locations/DMAs with academic, professional, and financial background to make them likely candidates for UM’s Online M.P.H. program.

STRATEGY: Our recommended mix includes both awareness driving tactics and lead generation to reach prospects at each stage of their journey with the appropriate messaging and CTA (call-to-action). We would develop separate creatives for each tactic to allow for specific targeting and alignment of messaging. With this budget, we are recommending we would focus on 3-5 domestic DMAs and we can expand from there from the start or down the road as budget allows. We will work with you to help identify those DMAs and locations based on market research, platform audience data, and any historical data available, along with data from your Google Analytics. 

STRATEGY HIGHLIGHTS: 
Ad/Messaging Development utilizing existing brand guidelines, taglines, images, and logos, along with A/B testing and creative refreshes when needed.
Google PPC to stay in front of active searchers based on a comprehensive keyword strategy including program, geography, and brand related keywords.
Landing Page development and hosting for PPC campaign and conversion optimization.
Nationwide targeting for Display Retargeting with an ‘Apply’ CTA to stay in front of those that have visited your website regardless of where they are in the country. 
LinkedIn Sponsored Content and Conversation Ads to generate both awareness and inquiries for prospective Online M.P.H. students to 3-5 DMAs and Retargeting on LinkedIn nationwide off of key M.P.H. pages on the website.
Search Engine Optimization (SEO) to optimize the Online M.P.H. program page, plus build out supporting pages (such as a Career page, Curriculum page, etc.)

International Expansion: Campaign strategies utilizing each of the tactics described above for Latin America markets available


Note: These recommendations are fully scalable and adjustable to fit any budget or goals. 

15
Service Outline & Recommended Investment
SERVICE
PLATFORM(S)
DESCRIPTION
GOAL (Primary)
RUNTIME
ESTIMATED CONVERSIONS
INVESTMENT
Paid Social
LinkedIn (Sponsored Content Ads)
Sponsored Content utilizing lead generation for prospective Online M.P.H. students to 3-5 DMAs and Retargeting nationwide off of key M.P.H. pages on the website
Sponsored Content: Awareness & In-platform Leads
Retargeting: Apply Actions

July 2024 - December 2024
80
$24,000
Paid Social
LinkedIn (Conversation Ads)
Conversation ad utilizing lead generation for prospective Online M.P.H. students to 3-5 DMAs
In-Platform Leads
July 2024 - December 2024
390
$30,000
Programmatic Display
Google
Retargeting nationwide off of key Online M.P.H. pages on the website
Apply Actions
July 2024 - June 2025
500*
$9,600
Pay-Per-Click (PPC)
Google
Brand and Online MPH keywords to 3-5 DMAs on the Google search engine
Inquiries
July 2024 - March 2025
240
$36,000
SEO/Content
University of Miami - Online M.P.H. Site
Web copywriting and optimization (2 pages/month): Perform keyword research and rewrite or revise existing on-page content to optimize for targeted keywords and ensure a positive user experience. This will include writing off-page metadata for these pages utilizing the same keywords as well as link and header recommendations.
Increase organic search engine rankings, website traffic, and user experience to drive brand awareness and on-site conversions.
July 2024 - September 2024
$9,000
Creative & Landing Page Development
Paid Media & Online M.P.H. Site
Display Ad and Linked Ad/Content Production; Landing Page Development and Hosting
$9,860
Platform/Campaign Setups
Paid Media & Online M.P.H. Site

Set up across all digital platforms including keyword research, creation of target audiences, development of all copy and ad text, including testing variations, bidding strategies, etc.
$6,500
Campaign Management & Reporting
Paid Media & Online M.P.H. Site
Strategy, execution, and management of all paid digital media, including campaign optimizations, and access to a live dashboard to monitor digital campaigns as well as ongoing analysis from Digital team, including performance insights, trends, and recommendations when applicable.
$27,888
Total:
1,210
$152,848


International Expansion
Google, LinkedIn
International expansion into Latin America markets leveraging PPC, Retargeting, and LinkedIn Sponsored Content Ad strategies above, plus ad and landing page development, setups, and management/reporting
+$96,092
15
The above plan represents an initial draft of approach based on what we know so far. Further customization, scale, and modification would ultimately occur through the discovery, planning, and collaboration process.



Account and Campaign Management
16

Carnegie will assemble an account and campaign management team to ensure optimal performance and that we’re achieving the results you need. From making sure each campaign is pacing and performing on track to making sure all campaigns and channels are working together to meet the overall goals, our team takes a very hands-on approach in reviewing performance and making optimizations to ensure best results.


ACCOUNT MANAGER
DIGITAL STRATEGIST
CLIENT SUCCESS LEADER
The intentional concierge to your Carnegie experience will be with you every step of the way working to ensure that our ongoing efforts align with your top priorities and enrollment goals. 
Your experienced, strategic partner in shaping your digital strategy, analyzing performance and optimizing your digital marketing efforts year-after-year. 
Comprehensive partnerships require meticulous attention to detail. Your Account Management Lead will ensure regular calls and communication and adherence to established timelines.  
Our digital marketing division is composed of 100+ digital leaders, strategists, specialists, analysts, and subject matter experts. You will be assigned dedicated team members across each specialization, including a digital strategist who will provide strategic oversight and harmonize our teams to ensure  a holistic approach to your campaigns that are measurable and aligned with your key goals and objectives. 

* Additionally, Carnegie offers personalized platform-specific data from our partners (ie. Google, Linkedin, etc.) and degree level benchmarking updated in real time.
We leverage, and you will have full access to, a Google LookerStudio dashboard which provides KPIs (impressions, clicks, conversions, etc.) from channels in your strategy mix and displays return on investment (ROI). This means we can holistically look at the overall performance of your strategy in real time but also look at data granularly to identify top-performing campaigns, keywords, creative, etc. These dashboards are available 24/7 and updated daily, making campaign results and ROI fully accessible at any time. In addition to the live dashboards, our strategists will provide analysis, insights, and next steps based on campaign performance. 
We will also leverage data available in your Google Analytics to gather performance insights to inform optimizations of your strategy, at no additional cost to you.
Campaign Tracking and Optimization 

17
LinkedIn Talent Pool Report
Proprietary Benchmark Dashboard
17

Case Studies + Testimonials
Ben

Ben
Proposal dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Proposal was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

19
UNTOnline
The Online division of the University of North Texas needed a digital marketing partner to achieve its enrollment goals for several key programs. Having reached an understanding of its authentic brand through Carnegie's consensus-driven approach, UNT needed to apply its University brand and drive awareness and enrollment growth through digital marketing for the following priority graduate programs: Education, Analytics, Business, Hospitality, and Merchandising.
“Carnegie had already walked in our University’s shoes through our brand engagement. It made sense to entrust our program-level digital strategy to a partner who already understood our goals and who we are as an institution.”
Karen BollingerAVP for Digital Growth, UNT Division of Digital Strategy and InnovationUniversity of North Texas
19

20
The Strategy
Carnegie’s Digital team implemented tactics including paid search, Display Outreach and Retargeting, Spotify, LinkedIn InMail, and lead generation campaigns on Facebook and Instagram. We customized digital messaging with the University’s personality traits identified in the University-wide reputation strategy engagement as both authentic to UNT and unique in the University’s market. And we continually optimized strategies based on performance, emphasizing various UNT personality traits based on results and audience engagement.

The ResultsUNT Online’s strategies drove impressive results both in terms of digital KPIs and enrollment outcomes. Campaigns generated consistent month-over-month growth, totaling more than 14 million impressions, 56,000 clicks, and 3,000 conversions. UNT also saw growth in awareness in just one year, with Carnegie’s campaigns generating more than 36,000 page views to UNT’s site and an overall increase of more than 110% in social media followers. In 2020, UNT generated more than 950 applications across the programs we promote—a 74% year-over-year increase. Further, there were more than 660 total accepted applications—an 87% increase year over year. Bolstered by Carnegie’s suite of innovative marketing strategies, UNT saw a 20% increase in overall graduate enrollment for fall 2020. 

+
+
20

21
MissouriOnline

“All of our interactions with the Carnegie team—from brand launch and development to launch of program-specific marketing—have been fantastic. Extending our team through Carnegie has positioned us better for our awareness and enrollment goals. Customer service, patience, responsiveness, talent—it’s all there with Carnegie.”
Chris TiptonInterim Director, Marketing & Communications
21

22
The Strategy
Our work started with building a cohesive System brand while acknowledging and preserving any established identities of each of the System Universities. Rooted in this research, Carnegie delivered brand architecture for a unified Missouri Online message to provide clarity and facilitate stronger awareness and enrollment growth. This architecture established a foundation for the development of naming recommendations, logos, campaign concepts, and an on-campus multimedia shoot. Carnegie also delivered custom audience segmentation the University has applied across marketing, including landing pages to tag personalized prospective student communication. We have since launched digital strategies primarily focused on building brand awareness, generating inquiries, and boosting application volume. Tactics include Display, social and streaming media, Search Engine Marketing, Search Engine Optimization, Google Analytics, and our proprietary Carnegie Clarity™ service, which tracks individual user activity throughout the enrollment funnel and personalizes experiences based on each user’s unique interests and actions.
The ResultsArmed with tools to speak with one voice across audiences, Missouri Online has unified its messaging across digital and print marketing, public relations, web, and more. Missouri Online has seen data that demonstrates an increase in brand lift, and many program-specific campaigns are seeing higher enrollment. Through Google’s Looker Studio dashboard, roughly 6,000 inquiries and 4,000 submitted applications were attributed to Carnegie digital campaigns in just nine months, with a notably low cost per conversion.

+
+
880,200new users to Missouri Online’s website

22%increase in course enrollments

16%increase in headcount


22

23
Norwich University-Online
The Strategy
Norwich University - Online selected Carnegie as its digital partner due to our depth and breadth of knowledge in higher education digital marketing. Their goal was to expand awareness and build inquiry pools for their online programs, particularly among military-connected audiences. Carnegie honed in on their target audience by focusing strategies on military bases, academies, and DMAs near military towns.  A multi-channel approach was taken using Meta and LinkedIn as well as focusing on paid search of military-related keywords.




+
Recently launched Carnegie-produced video linked above.
23
https://youtu.be/TOjMzGVwEa8?si=19IuPOVTo19cunBP 

The ResultsThe 15-month campaign expanded their brand reach through 28 million impressions, and, ads were not just seen–they generated action. The campaign generated 3,500 conversions, helping Norwich build the quality inquiry pool they desired. Carnegie’s commitment to ongoing campaign optimization also means that from 2023 to 2024, Carnegie was able to increase inquiries by 294% YoY and decrease cost-per-lead (CPL)  by 55%. LinkedIn Conversation Ads, in particular, were the top-performing campaigns across all programs, generating over 2,000 leads at an efficient CPL of $92.
294%increase in inquiries YoY
55%decrease in cost-per-lead YoY
+
24
24

25
MonroeCollege
The Challenge
Monroe College was dissatisfied with the local, independent digital broker that they had been using and decided to partner with Carnegie due to our expertise in higher education digital marketing. They needed help in growing brand awareness and increasing enrollment growth, specifically with adult learner/non-traditional students. Many of their students are low-income or first generation and they were looking for ways to effectively reach their audiences and also broaden their audience.




25
+

26
32%inquiry to application submission conversion rate when Carnegie is first source

HIGHESTWinter enrollment 
since 2010
The ResultsCarnegie developed a robust, multi-channel strategy with dedicated campaigns for each audience segment, including undergraduate, transfer, non-traditional/online, and graduate students. We took a full-funnel approach to the campaigns from lead generating to remarketing to personalized website interactions using Carnegie’s proprietary Clarity tool. In addition to the lead generation campaigns, Carnegie also deployed a brand awareness campaign to generate brand recognition and affinity. The campaigns were tested and optimized via a/b variant testing, creating lookalike audiences off of first-party data lists, landing page conversion rate optimization, etc. The inquiry to application conversion rate was 32% when a Carnegie ad was the first source of engagement with over 900 students enrolling as a result of interacting with a Carnegie campaign. This resulted in achieving the highest Winter enrollment since 2010.


26
+

In Conclusion…
Ben

Ben
Proposal dates back to the 70’s and really became popular as a concept in the 1990s when colleges would purchase SAT/ACT names to initiate a comprehensive direct mail and email campaign to recruit students. Proposal was born from a time when we had the world wide web/websites, email and CRMs…. access to names via College Board and ACT’s services. And then starting around 2010 and increased number of college going students…So as an industry we leveraged these tools and purchased names…

Deep Understanding of Higher Education and the Online Space: A comprehensive understanding of the higher education landscape, including market trends, regulatory challenges, and the competitive environment. We stay updated on industry developments and leverage our knowledge to develop effective marketing strategies for your needs.
Tailored Services: A range of services specifically designed to meet the online specific needs for the launch of your new M.P.H. program. This includes branding and identity development, website optimization, content marketing, digital advertising, search engine optimization (SEO), social media management, lead generation, enrollment marketing, and more.
Expertise in Audience Segmentation: An understanding of the diverse audience segments within the universe of prospective online students and the ability to craft campaign strategy to resonate with different demographics and psychographics involved.
Strategic Partnerships: A true partnership approach to provide ongoing support, strategy, and performance for our marketing efforts. These partnerships involve collaborating with in-house marketing teams and other stakeholders to align marketing strategies with institutional goals and objectives.
Focus on ROI: Results-driven focus on delivering measurable outcomes for our partners. We utilize data analytics tools to track the performance of marketing campaigns, assess return on investment (ROI), and make data-driven adjustments to optimize outcomes and maximize enrollment.
Industry Best Practices: A constant focus on innovation and staying abreast of industry best practices and emerging trends in higher education marketing. We conduct research, focus on continuous improvement and development, share thought leadership, earn certifications, offer workshops and events, and lean into industry partnerships to ensure that our strategies are innovative and effective.
Reputation and Track Record: A proven track record of success working with colleges and universities in the online space. We’re proud of our client testimonials, examples of work and success, and industry awards that showcase our credibility and expertise.

We look forward to the possibility of supporting you and helping to achieve the enrollment goals you’ve shared for your Online M.P.H. program!



Why Carnegie?
28
28

210 Littleton Road, Suite 100 Westford, MA 01886
info@carnegiehighered.com
carnegiehighered.com
978.692.5092
